Welcome back everyone.
We're going to continue off with the example we left off last time and we're going to show you how to
customize that basic Daschle out of just a little bit of styling for the text and some color.
So let's go back going the same pie file as before and then add on some style calls to it.
Let's go back to that text editor.
OK.
Here we are back at the dash component.
Remember we already had our imports we created that object and we edited the layout.
What I want to show you now very quickly is how you can add style calls to HTL components specifically
CSSA styling calls.
If you're already familiar of aist him see SS You can dive deeper and really customize these components.
And then I want to show you how you can add style to a graph and to the style of this layout itself.
What we're going to do here is underneath app I'm going to create a colour's dictionary and this Koehler's
dictionary.
Technically you don't need to have a dictionary.
This is just for convenience for myself.
So I can assign colors consistently.
So I always say the background key in this caller's dictionary is the hex code hash tag 1 1 1 1 1 1.
So that's going to be the color black and I will say text and I'm going to make this kind of a teal
colors will say hash tag 7 F D B F F.
OK.
So again this colour's dictionary.
This is just going to allow me to do things like say colors and then call text in order to quickly grab
whatever text color I decided on.
And this is a nice way to organize your specific styling calls throughout your dashboard application
instead of having to manually input the strings every time.
The other thing I could do is assign the strings to variables but often it's nice to be able to call
it with a dictionary.
That way it's relevant.
What this text is referring to it's the colors of the text.
So that's what we'll be doing.
And let's start off by showing you how you could style a one or div element.
So these HVM all components to do that.
What I'm going to do is I'm actually just going to delete this middle one right here.
So we'll just have H-1 at the top that says Hello dash and inside of H-1 just like we have this string
right here.
Children equals Hello dash so technically saying children hello.
Dash is just the first component.
So we don't have to provide it.
What I'm going to provide here is style and we're going to say style and this is where you can pass
in a dictionary of various CSSA styling components.
So if you already are an expert in HTL and see SS You can really customize these Estill components to
very specific degrees of whatever you want and later on we're also going to show you how you can make
your own CSSA styling templates and connect them to your dashboard.
Again this is mainly for people who already have a background H.M.S. assess.
Again the main point of that though is that you don't have to know that stuff in order to make a nice
looking dashboard.
But I do want to share these options just in case you do know them.
So you can do style calls such as text the line and then we can say center here and that allows us to
grab this html component and align its text to the center and then we can also do things like a CSSA
call to assign color.
So I could say color and then assign that to either string directly or the dictionary call.
So I could say inside here colour's and then say text which is eventually going to grab the string so
that you can grab any HTML component and add style to it based off essentially what is a C S S call.
All right.
Now let's see how we can affect things such as style and color for the core components.
We just saw how we can work with the male components.
And this is essentially just passing in a style dictionary with CSSA calls for core components because
it is a higher level abstraction.
It's going to have to be a little more customized of a call than just direct CSX.
So we're going to say here is inside of lay out we have this dictionary and we're going to add in a
few more things here.
So we're going to say plots underscore B.G. color and that stands for the background color of the actual
plot.
And you could do this phenomenal plot in plot as well.
So we have this lay out parameter plot B.G. color and this is where you can provide any background colors
you want.
We're just going to go ahead and say colors and call background again which is remember just essentially
a hexadecimal code for the color black.
And then we can also call paper background color.
And this is for stuff that's not directly on the plot itself but things like outside of the actual grid
lines.
And again we can call colors and we'll say background here.
And then finally let's go ahead and color the font.
So here the way we do this is a little more convoluted we say font.
And then inside of this we passen yet another dictionary and we say color and here we're just going
to say colors and grab the next color that we previously defined let's say that and we want to make
sure we have a comma here so that we don't screw up this overall dictionary for the layout.
I'm going to save that.
And if you ever get any typos here you can go ahead and copy and paste from the file you provided which
should be called layout to that pie and all the way at the bottom here.
We're also going to do is give style to this entire layout itself.
So to basically this app layout and the way we do that is right after this giant list that we provided.
We're going to say
Khama and call style here and this where we can say something like background's color and say colors
background a common complaint about plotline dashboards in general is the fact that you end up having
to use a lot of nested dictionaries and nested lists.
It can be really confusing in the beginning but I would just say be really patient with it and eventually
you'll start to pick up on the patterns and you'll be able to just easily copy and paste and insert
your own code.
You don't need to be a master of memorizing everything here.
As far as what the dictionaries go where the lists go etc. you should just become familiar with being
able to look up information copy and paste and then add it to your own needs.
Because I myself wouldn't have memorized where the dictionary lay out goals or where the lists go.
I know those can be quite confusing especially as a beginner.
So keep in mind patience is the key here.
And in just a little bit in the very next lecture you're going to see how we can simplify all this by
simply putting our past plot plots.
But I'm going to save this for now.
You can go and PAS the video in case you need to get a better idea of what we just did here but we should
be make sure you fix that typo.
Background color.
We should be ready to go.
I'm going to bring back my terminal and let's run this again basic thought by and let's visit it in
our browser.
So that's going to be at 1 2 7 0 0 1 850.
And now when I bring it over I should be able to see it mostly in black and then that kind of teal color.
So here I see now the background has been changed as well as the text colors and those here that technicolor
have also changed on the plot itself for the grid lines and the legend over here on the right.
I want to quickly review what we just did although I wouldn't be too concerned about memorizing the
sort of thing.
So let me zoom out a little bit so we can see the saw clearly all we did at this lecture was show you
some methods of affecting the styling and the coloring of what's in your dashboard.
What I like to do is set up the colors dictionary that we can do things like how they background color
and have a text color.
They can constantly call for HTB components.
It's actually quite easy to affect the style.
All you need to do is add a style call with a dictionary that the particular type of is styling want
to do.
And then the value you want to give it.
So things like text a line or color those will directly connect to this HTL component for Dash core
components it's a little harder.
But basically where you're going to do inside your layout dictionary you're going to look up in the
documentation for plot Lee what the actual terms are for common things like background color or fonts
and some of these required dictionaries themselves where you can get a little convoluted but hopefully
you get the idea that the way to affect styling for a core component is that somewhere in your graph
object you're going to find it lay out dictionary and then put in the right keywords and passen the
right values there.
We're going to show you lots and lots of examples of this during the course.
So by the end of the course you're going to feel really familiar with customizing things making colors
right.
But right now this is more just to show you what is possible.
Don't worry about memorizing everything you've seen here.
I think in the very next lecture where you actually could use a polygraph and insert to a dashboard
things are really going to click there and you're going to see the real power of dash and creating dashboards.
All right.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums and we'll do our best to help you out.
Thanks.
And we'll see at the next lecture.